Document authentication settings. (#69284)
elastic/kibana: docs/settings/security-settings.asciidoc

For example:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc:
    providers:
      basic.basic1: <1>
          order: 0 <2>
          ...

      saml.saml1: <3>
          order: 1
          ...
  
      saml.saml2: <4>
          order: 2
          ...
  
      pki.realm3:
          order: 3
          ...
    ...
----------------------------------------
<1> Specifies the type of authentication provider (for example, `basic`, `token`, `saml`, `oidc`, `kerberos`, `pki`) and the provider name. This setting is mandatory.
<2> Specifies the order of the provider in the authentication chain and at the Login Selector UI. This setting is mandatory.
<3> Specifies the settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml1` name.
<4> Specifies the settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml2` name.

The valid settings in `xpack.security.authc.providers` namespace vary depending on the authentication provider type. For more information, refer to <<kibana-authentication>>.

[float]
[[authentication-provider-settings]]
===== Valid settings for all authentication providers

[cols="2*<"]
|===

> | `xpack.security.authc.providers.<provider-type>.<provider-name>.enabled`

Author: Fixed!

|===

[float]
[[authentication-security-settings]]
==== Authentication security settings

You configure authentication settings in the `xpack.security.authc` namespace in `kibana.yml`.

For example:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc:
    providers:
      basic.basic1: <1>
          order: 0 <2>
          ...

      saml.saml1: <3>
          order: 1
          ...
  
      saml.saml2: <4>
          order: 2
          ...
  
      pki.realm3:
          order: 3
          ...
    ...
----------------------------------------
<1> Specifies the type of authentication provider (for example, `basic`, `token`, `saml`, `oidc`, `kerberos`, `pki`) and the provider name. This setting is mandatory.

> <2> Specifies order of the provider in the authentication chain and at the Login Selector UI. This setting is mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Specifies the order of the provider in the authentication chain and at the Login Selector UI. This setting is mandatory.
```

> <3> Specifies settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml1` name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Specifies the settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml1` name.
```

> <4> Specifies settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml2` name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Specifies the settings for the SAML authentication provider with a `saml2` name.
```

> The valid settings in `xpack.security.authc.providers` namespace vary depending on the authentication provider type. For more information, see <<kibana-authentication>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The valid settings in `xpack.security.authc.providers` namespace vary depending on the authentication provider type. For more information, refer to <<kibana-authentication>>.
```

[float]
[[authentication-provider-settings]]

> ===== Settings valid for all authentication providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Valid settings for all authentication providers
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===

> | `xpack.security.authc.providers.`

Author: __note:__ the setting name is super long and it leaves a tiny space for the setting description itself. I didn't manage to find a better way to make it readable. Another alternative I was considering is omitting `xpack.security.authc.providers.` prefix completely and explaining that all settings in this section are assumed to have one. But it didn't look well with the rest of the settings we describe in this file.

Happy to hear any suggestions!

Reviewer: I wouldn't worry about the spacing issues in the tables. Gail is changing the tables into definition lists, so the spacing issue should work itself out.

`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.enabled`

> | Determines if authentication provider should be enabled. By default, {kib} enables provider as soon as you configure any of its properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Determines if the authentication provider should be enabled. By default, {kib} enables the provider as soon as you configure any of its properties.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.order`

> | Order of the provider in the authentication chain and in the Login Selector UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Order of the provider in the authentication chain and on the Login Selector UI.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.description`

> | Custom description of the provider entry displayed at the Login Selector UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Custom description of the provider entry displayed on the Login Selector UI.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.hint`

> | Custom hint for the provider entry displayed at the Login Selector UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Custom hint for the provider entry displayed on the Login Selector UI.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.icon`

> | Custom icon for the provider entry displayed at the Login Selector UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Custom icon for the provider entry displayed on the Login Selector UI.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.showInSelector`

> | Flag indicating if provider should have an entry at the Login Selector UI. Setting this to `false` doesn't remove provider from the authentication chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Flag that indicates if the provider should have an entry on the Login Selector UI. Setting this to `false` doesn't remove the provider from the authentication chain.
```

|===

[NOTE]
============

> It's not allowed to set this setting to `false` for `basic` and `token` authentication providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are unable to set this setting to `false` for `basic` and `token` authentication providers.
```

============

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`<provider-type>.<provider-name>.accessAgreement.message`

> | Access agreement text in Markdown format. For more information, see <<xpack-security-access-agreement>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Access agreement text in Markdown format. For more information, refer to <<xpack-security-access-agreement>>.
```

|===

[float]
[[saml-authentication-provider-settings]]
===== SAML authentication provider settings

In addition to <<authentication-provider-settings,the settings that are valid for all providers>>, you can specify the following settings:

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`saml.<provider-name>.realm`

> | SAML realm in {es} that provider should use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SAML realm in {es} that the provider should use.
```

| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`saml.<provider-name>.maxRedirectURLSize`

> | The maximum size of the URL that {kib} is allowed to store during the SAML handshake. See <<security-saml-and-long-urls>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The maximum size of the URL that {kib} is allowed to store during the SAML handshake. For more information, refer to <<security-saml-and-long-urls>>.
```

> | The maximum size of the URL that {kib} is allowed to store during the SAML handshake. See <<security-saml-and-long-urls>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The maximum size of the URL that {kib} is allowed to store during the SAML authentication handshake. See <<security-saml-and-long-urls>>.
```

|===

[float]
[[oidc-authentication-provider-settings]]
===== OpenID Connect authentication provider settings

In addition to <<authentication-provider-settings,the settings that are valid for all providers>>, you can specify the following settings:

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| `xpack.security.authc.providers.`
`oidc.<provider-name>.realm`

> | OpenID Connect realm in {es} that provider should use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OpenID Connect realm in {es} that the provider should use.
```

|===

[float]
[[http-authentication-settings]]
===== HTTP authentication settings

> There is a very limited set of cases when you'd want to change these settings. For more information, see <<http-authentication>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a very limited set of cases when you'd want to change these settings. For more information, refer to <<http-authentication>>.
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| `xpack.security.authc.http.enabled`
| Determines if HTTP authentication should be enabled. By default, this setting is set to `true`.

| `xpack.security.authc.http.autoSchemesEnabled`
| Determines if HTTP authentication schemes used by the enabled authentication providers should be automatically supported during HTTP authentication. By default, this setting is set to `true`.

| `xpack.security.authc.http.schemes`
| List of HTTP authentication schemes that {kib} HTTP authentication should support. By default, this setting is set to `['apikey']` to support HTTP authentication with <<api-keys, `ApiKey`>> scheme.

|===

[float]
[[login-selector-settings]]

> ===== Login Selector settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Login Selector UI settings
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| `xpack.security.authc.selector.enabled`

> | Determines if Login Selector UI should be enabled. By default, this setting is set to `true` if more than one authentication provider is configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Determines if the Login Selector UI should be enabled. By default, this setting is set to `true` if more than one authentication provider is configured.
```

| `xpack.security.loginAssistanceMessage`
  | Adds a message to the login screen. Useful for displaying information about maintenance windows, links to corporate sign up pages etc.

| `xpack.security.loginHelp`

>   | Adds a message accessible at the Login Selector UI with an additional help information around the login process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | Adds a message accessible at the Login Selector UI with additional help information for the login process.
```
